# Promoting Awareness of Children's Mental Health and Issues

## Introduction
The COVID-19 pandemic has raised concerns about the mental health of a generation of children. But the pandemic may represent the tip of a mental health iceberg – an iceberg we have ignored for far too long. The State of the World’s Children 2021 examines child, adolescent and caregiver mental health. It focuses on risks and protective factors at critical moments in the life course and delves into the social determinants that shape mental health and well-being. 
It calls for commitment, communication and action as part of a comprehensive approach to promote good mental health for every child, protect vulnerable children and care for children facing the greatest challenges. In nearly every part of the world, be it rich or poor countries, mental health conditions and the lack of caring responses cause significant suffering for children and young people and are a top cause of death, disease and disability, especially for older adolescents. Children and young people could feel the impact of COVID-19 on their mental health and well-being for many years to come. As we enter the third year of the pandemic, the disruption to routines, education, recreation, as well as concern for family income and health, is leaving many young people feeling afraid, angry and concerned for their future. Our inability to address mental health can be measured by how little societies are willing to talk about or understand it. The fear of harsh words, laughter and abuse that underline the stigma around mental health make it harder for children, adolescents and caregivers to express their feelings.
Children and adolescents with mental health needs frequently are involved with multiple social services agencies or systems, including public health, mental health and substance use authorities, special education, child welfare and juvenile justice. However, no agency or system usually takes responsibility for coordinating their care or prevents them from falling through the cracks and not getting needed services. Untreated mental health needs among children and youth affect not only the young person and their family, but also schools, communities, workplaces and the nation as a whole. These costs are too high to leave the mental health needs of so many young people unaddressed.

## Problem Statement
Childrens are interested in improving their mental health, despite the stigma, especially in these stressful times. They face a problem that they don’t know where to start learning about improving their mental health and seeking professional help is also difficult for being expensive and inaccessible due to family views as well. We aim to aid in making a safe space for childrens in need of a secure, and provide mental health guidance and professional help.

## Significance of the Proposed Project
Children's development of social, emotional and behavioral well-being is central to their overall healthy development. Good mental health helps them develop the resilience to cope with whatever life throws at them and grow into well-rounded, healthy adults.

 Children need to have a good mental health if they are going to live up to their full potential and truly live a life that is filled with positive experiences and the willingness to do what is best for themselves and the people around them. Mentally healthy children have an overall good outlook on life, and can function well at home, in school, and in their communities.

Mental health promotion attempts to encourage and increase protective factors and healthy behaviors that can help prevent the onset of a diagnosable mental disorder and reduce risk factors that can lead to the development of a mental disorder. It also involves creating living conditions and environments that support mental health and allow people to adopt and maintain healthy lifestyles.

## Methods
This study strives to be a fair and independent source of information about children’s mental health, creating a forum for sharing diverse ideas and opinions about ways to improve the lives of children and youth living with mental health conditions and their families. The researcher must disseminate and promote effective practices that treat and prevent mental health problems in children. The proponents must address the prevalence of child’s mental health problems and reduce the stigma faced by these young people.

## Expected Output
Mental health promotion and prevention have often been confused. Promotion is defined as intervening to optimize positive mental health by addressing determinants of positive mental health before a specific mental health problem has been identified, with the ultimate goal of improving the positive mental health of the population. Mental health prevention is defined as intervening to minimize mental health problems by addressing determinants of mental health problems before a specific mental health problem has been identified in the individual, group, or population of focus with the ultimate goal of reducing the number of future mental health problems in the population. Mental health promotion and prevention are at the core of a public health approach to children and youth mental health which addresses the mental health of all children, focusing on the balance of optimizing positive mental health as well as preventing and treating mental health problems.
  
It is highly important to raise mental health awareness since young people are seriously affected by mental health issues every day. They need a source of information they can rely on to guide them through the process of dealing with their inner issues.

The researchers will conduct a seminar program promoting awareness of Children's Mental Health and Issues. This seminar will help the children to cope up with their traumas and dilemmas. This is also to improve the mental health of children as well as to enrich their minds. The researchers proposed a seminar program to provide children an activity that will develop their self-esteem, self-love as well as boost their confidence. Children and parents/guardians will benefit from this program because it will help them perform better and stimulate action and creativity. Some of the objectives are to identify children’s mental health and issues, to understand the concept of children's awareness in mental health, as well as to determine the importance of resolving children’s mental health problems. The involvement seminar program is facilitated by the Researchers coordinator team. For the training evaluation the researchers will use surveys through google forms. To give the researchers feedback to help identify if the seminar achieved the intended outcome and objectives. As well as to help the researchers in their future seminar and training.
